When a user visits a web application (like an online store), the following happens:

User Request: The user opens their browser and sends a request (e.g., "show product list") by clicking a link or typing in a URL.
Request Received by Web Server: The web server (e.g., NGINX, Apache) forwards the request to the application server.
Processing by Application Server:
The application server runs the business logic (e.g., checking product availability, calculating prices).
It fetches or updates data from the database server (e.g., MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL).
It may also interact with external services (e.g., retrieving shipment data from a third-party API).
Response: After processing the request, the application server sends the response back to the web server, which forwards it to the user's browser (e.g., displaying a list of products).

Let’s say you’re building a WordPress website:

NGINX or Apache acts as the web server, handling requests from users.
PHP-FPM is the application server running the PHP code that generates dynamic content (e.g., retrieving posts, processing user logins).
MariaDB is the database server that stores data (e.g., blog posts, user accounts) and works in coordination with the application server to provide the necessary data.

Containers have networking enabled by default. why

ChatGPT said:
ChatGPT
Containers have networking enabled by default because they need to communicate with each other, the host machine, and external services. In many cases, applications running inside containers rely on network connectivity to perform essential tasks, such as connecting to databases, interacting with other containers, or serving requests from users.

Here are some key reasons why networking is enabled by default in containers:

1. Inter-Container Communication:
Containers often need to interact with one another. For example, in a typical web application, a container running the web server (like NGINX) needs to communicate with another container running a database server (like MariaDB). Networking enables containers to communicate with each other over specific IP addresses or container names.
2. Host-Container Communication:
Networking allows the host system (the machine running the container) to communicate with the container. For example, when you interact with an application in a container, the host forwards the requests to the appropriate container, which requires networking.
3. External Access (Internet):
Many applications running in containers require access to the internet to fetch updates, communicate with external APIs, or serve web pages to users. For example, a containerized web server needs to connect to external clients via the internet to serve HTTP requests.
4. Ease of Use:
Containers are often used to package and run applications in isolated environments. Networking is enabled by default to make it easy for developers to work with containers without needing to manually configure networking each time. This makes it simple to start a container and connect it to other services or the outside world.
5. Default Networking Modes:
Containers typically come with a default network configuration that allows them to communicate with the outside world:

Bridge Network: This is the default network mode in Docker. It creates a private internal network on the host for containers. Containers can communicate with each other through this network and can also access external networks (like the internet) through Network Address Translation (NAT).
Host Network: In this mode, the container shares the host's network stack. This allows the container to have direct access to the network interface of the host, making it useful for applications that need high network performance.
None Network: This disables networking, isolating the container. It’s used when you don’t want the container to access any network.
6. Container Orchestration and Networking:
When using tools like Docker Compose or Kubernetes to orchestrate multiple containers, networking becomes essential. These tools often rely on networking to:

Link containers together so they can communicate.
Expose services to the outside world through ports.
Handle dynamic service discovery where containers can find and connect to each other by name or DNS.
7. Port Mapping:
When containers are created, they typically have private internal IP addresses. Networking allows containers to map internal ports to external ports, making services running inside containers accessible to the host and other containers.

Example:
In a Docker project with an NGINX container as a proxy server, a MariaDB container, and a WordPress container:

The WordPress container (application server) needs to connect to the MariaDB container (database server) to fetch and store data.
The NGINX container (proxy server) needs to route incoming web requests to the WordPress container.
Networking allows all these containers to communicate efficiently with each other and external users.

-----
the default Docker networks (bridge, host, and none) cannot be removed. These networks are created by Docker automatically when you install it, and they are required for Docker to function properly.

bridge network:
Default network for containers: If you don’t specify a network when starting a container, Docker will attach it to the bridge network by default. This network allows communication between containers and the host through NAT (Network Address Translation).
Cannot be deleted: The
host network:

Bypass Docker’s isolation: When a container uses the host network, it shares the host’s network stack, meaning the container has direct access to the host machine’s networking interface. This is useful for applications that require lower latency or direct access to the network interfaces of the host.
Cannot be deleted: The host network is an essential built-in network that Docker provides to allow for more efficient networking in some cases.

none network:
No networking: When a container is attached to the none network, it does not have any network interfaces. This is useful when you want to completely isolate the container from the network.
Cannot be deleted: The none network is another essential network that Docker needs to provide full control over container networking, including complete isolation.
How to Work Around This:
You can manage and remove user-defined networks, but these default networks are required for Docker’s functionality. If you try to remove them, Docker will prevent the action, as they are critical for container management.

If you're trying to clean up unused networks, use the following command to remove user-defined networks that are not currently in use:

bash
Copy code
docker network prune
This will remove any networks created by you (not the default ones) that aren't currently used by any containers. However, the bridge, host, and none networks will not be affected. bridge network is part of Docker’s default networking setup and is essential for the basic operation of containers. Docker uses it to route traffic between containers and between the host and containers.